---
title:  "The Student Life"
subtitle: "Probably the most important section"
author: "N"
avatar: "img/authors/edrick.jpg"
image: "img/e.jpg"
date:   2015-04-22 12:12:12
---

## The Student Life
Being an engineering exchange student, there are a couple things to keep in mind about student life.

### Academic Time

Probably one of the weirder aspects of student life, the times written on schedule and events is not the real time you should show up.  Keeping with ancient habits where students relied on the church bell to tell time, they were given 15 minutes after the chime to show up to their class. In its modern  manifestation, there is simple 15 and double 15. During weekdays from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., simple 15 applies and  the start time is 15 minutes later than written. Any other time, double 15 applies and events start 30 minutes later than written. One adjustment factor to this is called prick (period), which is modified to the academic time rules. For every period after the time, you take off 15 minutes. On top of this, if times are written with a ':' or the event is an exam or lab, generally they start on time.

### LTH Guilds
LTH is the engineering department at Lund, and is divided into guilds. Each guild represents a different faculty of engineering:

- **F** Students of Engineering Nanoscience, Engineering  Mathematics and Engineering Physics
- **E** Students of Electrical Engineering and Biomedical Engineering
- **M** Students of  Mechanical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering and Technical Design
- **V** Students of Civil Engineering, Surveying and Fire Safety Engineering/Risk Management
- **A** Students of  Architecture and Industrial Design
- **K** Students of Chemical Engineering/Biotechnology
- **D** Students of Information and Communication Systems  Engineering and Computer Science
- **Dokt** PhD Students from all programs at the Faculty of Engineering
- **ING** Students of Engineering at campus Helsingborg
- **I** Students of  Industrial Engineering and Management
- **W** Students of Environmental Engineering

And you thought Waterloo had a lot of disciplines. Fire Engineering is by far the coolest one Lund has.

With most Waterloo disciplines, there is an equivalent at Lund and that is the guild you will be assigned to. Being the way Systems Design is, the guild you get placed in depends on the courses you are taking. I was lucky enough to be placed the [F-Guild](https://fsektionen.se/), which is one of the bigger guilds with a lot of international mentors.

The guild you are in doesn't really affect your academics too many ways, but is in integral part of the orientation experience if you so choose to do an exchange term in the Fall.

#### Nollning

Nollning is the orientation "week" that LTH students go through. And when I say week, I really mean like **5** weeks. During this month and a bit, there are a plethora of events, ranging from competitions to parties to jumping in lakes to sittnings (fancy Swedish dinner party) to secret camps. You start off as a "nolla" (zero) at the beginning and you graduate into being a first year student.

Each guild has its own separate themes for Nollning; mine was Medieval Times. Like all orientation events, there is a ladder of important people. The events are run by the Før (First) who serve a similar purpose to EDCOM. They too dress up and hold ultimate power (although the Før are quite nice if you get to know them). However, you will be spending most of your time with your Fadder (Mentor). They're not only there to lead you through events, but they also serve as great guides to the school, the city, and overall Swedish culture. By the end of Nollning, they'll not only your mentors but also your good friends. They are most noticeable with their tassel hat, which brings us to the next mini section: Clothing!

* small note, as I found out later Før and Fadder are actually supposed to be spelt with a "Ph" instead of an "F", but because I was in the F-Guild, it's kind of punny.

##### Clothing

There are two pieces of clothing that you will be very accustomed to during orientation: the teknolog cap and the overalls.

The teknolog cap is a tassel hat that is very specific to engineering student and tells a lot about the person wearing it. As a nolla, you won't have one until the final graduation party. The tassel on each cap holds spegats (they're kind of like woggles that scouts have on their neckercheif). As an engineering student, you can add one to the tassel for each year you have been in school. The spegat have different colours to represent different things, such as involvement in sports, student council, or specialty programs.

An interesting note about the spegate is that it's placement on the tassel implies different things. In a party setting, the higher the spegat is on the tassel, the more desperate you are in bringing someone home. If you are very desperate, you can choose to throw the tassel over your cap. This can be done humorously to your friends. On the opposite end of the spectrum, if you are in a relationship, your partner will tie a knot on the string (to keep you from moving the spegat). The lower the know is on the tassel, the more serious the relationship. Once you are done studying, you can put a lock in the tassel to prevent more spegat from being added, signifying your end of studies. The cap also comes in to colours, white and blue. More specifically, you put a blue cover over the cap during winter months.

The second thing you will be very accustomed to is the overalls. In Waterloo, we get coloured t-shirts, but in Lund, we get full blown coveralls. Each guild has their own colour, which makes it very obvious what guild you are in, especially since you are expected to wear them to most events. You can also customize it with your own patches and stuff.  For native students, this is something they keep throughout their years for different guild events.

An interesting event that takes place is the trading event, where you snip off strips of leg from the overalls and trade it with other guilds. You collect strips to [frankenstein](https://farm6.static.flickr.com/5616/15337507390_70d7c9b34f_b.jpg) back a new leg with all the [other colours](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_student_boilersuit_colours#Faculty_of_Engineering_(LTH)). The most elusive is the archectural blazer arm piece and fire engineering leg piece. The reason for this is that there are not a lot of architecture students and rumour says fire engineer's coveralls are fireproof and they actually need it for their courses.


You might also need a suit, which brings us to the next mini section: Sittning!

#### Sittning

A sittning is basically a fancy dinner party with songs, skits, and of course, alcohol. Typically speaking, there are long tables where there is prearranged seating such that there's a checkerboard pattern of ladies and gents. Ladies are expected to wear dresses and well for the gents, a suit will do, but the traditional Swedish way of doing it is a frack (white tie or penguin suit as I like to call it). This is something that really isn't seen outside of Scandanavia and is what you see at the Nobel prize or at magic shows.

Each and every sittning will be different, but overall, there will be a lot of singing, toasts, and gykels. I'll let you figure out what that last thing is. At this point, I would like to say that I was very fortunate to be in the F-Guild where they had a full English sittnings specifically to accommodate the international students.


Overall, it's a crazy, high production value month of events, bonding, and fun. Speaking of fun, the next section is about Nations!

### Nations

Nations are also another specialty, very specific to Sweden. There really isn't an equivalent to nations in Canada, and the closest thing I can compare it to would be houses in Harry Potter. Each nation is a social club of sorts that offer different activities such as meet-ups, parties, and sports events to it's members.

In Lund, there are 13 nations in total:

* Östgöta Nation
* Västgöta Nation
* Smålands Nation
* Lunds Nation
* Malmö Nation
* Helsingborgs-Landskrona Nation
* Sydskånska Nationen
* Kristianstads Nation
* Blekingska Nationen
* Göteborgs Nation
* Hallands Nation
* Kalmar Nation
* Wermlands Nation

Each of them has their own particular "personality", which you can find out on their [website](https://www.studentlund.se/nationer/) or more accurately through word of mouth. There is generally a nations fair at the beginning of the term, where all the nations promote themselves and try to recruit new people. It is important to note that although it is mandatory to join one of the 12 nations, that a membership in one allows you to attend activities in all of them.

The small discrepancy here comes from that fact that the [Smålands Nation](http://www.smalands.org/?lang=en) is not part of the Academic Society, so if you would like to join the Smålands Nation, you still need to join one of the other 12.

I personally joined Västgöta, which is the chill gaming cooking nation, but I ended up doing a bunch of stuff with Sydskånska. I would highly recommend volunteering at events and participating in all the activities.

### Residences

There are a lot of different choices to residences in Lund, each with their own unique characteristics. Each floor in a residences is generally referred to as a **korridor**, with most residences having 14-16 rooms per korridor with shared kitchen area and ensuite bathrooms. If you were an engineering student, Delphi and Sparta are the closest residences to LTH buildings. I'm a little biased by I would definitely suggest to apply for Delphi. I was lucky enough to stay at one of the special korridors in Delphi, which were 6 people instead of 14 per korridor and they were all super friendly. Swedish people can be shy at first, but if you're open to talk, they will definitely oblige.
