---
title:  The Culture
subtitle: Same and different
author: "Edrick"
avatar: "img/authors/edrick.jpg"
image: "img/f.jpg"
date:   2016-08-11 12:12:12
---

### The Language

Swedish is quite an distinct language, bearing its roots in a Scandinavian Germanic languages. There are many different local dialects of Swedish, so much that native Swedish speakers can tell what cities others are from just by the way they speak. The local dialect of Swedish in Lund is Scanian, which in some sense can be compared to what Southern US English is to Canadian English. But being such a big university, you will hear almost every different accent there is.

An interesting note is the relationship between the neighbouring languages. Between Danish and Swedish, everything written is pretty much the same; however, the speaking is quite different (you can ask a local Swede to explain the differences between Swedish and Danish). Swedish and Norwegian are mostly intelligible when spoken; however, Norwegians have to different writing systems. This triangle of languages is quite an interesting relationship to explore.

The language itself contains a couple extra letters compared to english, namely ä, å, and ö (which kind of sound like ahh, ohh, and err). Comparatively, Swedish words also don't really contain the letters q, w, or z although they are still technically in the alphabet. There is also one more sound to be aware of, which is the ['sj'](https://youtu.be/9x7C6qeh-SQ) sound. There's really no English equivalent to it; most Swedish teachers call it the candle blowout sound by I prefer to refer to it as the [Cool Whip](https://youtu.be/7ZmqJQ-nc_s) sound.

One of the best things about Sweden is that it is the second most fluent country in English (only losing to the Netherlands and technically the UK). So don't worry about not being able to speak the language!

### The People

As mentioned before, Swedish people can be quite shy at first. They won't talk to you if you don't talk to them. Which means that you just have to go and talk to them! The easiest way is to bug your mentors, the people in your korridor, or even join some clubs. Curiosity about the culture and common interests tends to bring people together quite well. Common topics that Swedish people quite care about is nature, the weather, and Eurovision.

You might also notice upon arriving that Swedish people are also very well dressed, even to class. You will definitely have to up your style game when you get there, although it is the land of H&M, so that should be quite easy.


### The Food

The classic Swedish foods are generally things that were created out of necessity of living in the north in the past. The first thing that comes to mind might be Swedish meatballs, which is actually one of the most common things that people (university students) eat. Normally it is served with lingonsylt (lingonberry jam) and some form of potatoes on the side.

Another staple of Swedish university food is something called [falukorv](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Falukorv) which is a protected food that really is SPAM in a red sausage form. There are many ways to cook it, and one to be discovered with your fellow Swedish korridormates. If you are brave enough, you can eat it raw.

### The Fika

Fika, which is a rearranged backslang version of kaffi, which is an old way of spelling coffee in Swedish. Fika is an important aspect of Swedish life and is done by almost everyone. Fundamentally, it is an afternoon break where people, at school or at work, enjoy a little bit of coffee and small treats.

Speaking of coffee, Swedish people consume some of the most amounts of coffee in the world. On top of this, you will find that the coffee is much stronger and they tend to take it black.
